README.md, before:

# rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json

Rsbuild plugin for generating the Chrome DevTools project settings file on-the-fly in the dev server.

<p>
  <a href="https://npmjs.com/package/rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json">
   <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json?style=flat-square&colorA=564341&colorB=EDED91" alt="npm version" />
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square&colorA=564341&colorB=EDED91" alt="license" />
</p>

This enables seamless integration with the new Chrome DevTools features:

1. [DevTools Project Settings (devtools.json)](https://goo.gle/devtools-json-design)
2. [Automatic Workspace folders](http://goo.gle/devtools-automatic-workspace-folders)

<img width="800" alt="Screenshot 2025-06-22 at 21 45 26" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/daae3e57-f0fc-43c1-b191-8f916bc542ae" />

## Installation

```bash
npm i -D rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json
```

## Usage

Add it to your Rsbuild config:

```js
import { defineConfig } from "@rsbuild/core";
import { pluginDevtoolsJson } from "rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json";

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    pluginDevtoolsJson(),
    // ...
  ],
});
```

While the plugin can generate a UUID and save it in Rsbuild cache, you can also specify it in the options like in the following:

```js
pluginDevtoolsJson({
  uuid: "6ec0bd7f-11c0-43da-975e-2a8ad9ebae0b",
});
```

The `/.well-known/appspecific/com.chrome.devtools.json` endpoint will serve the project settings as JSON with the following structure:

```json
{
  "workspace": {
    "root": "/path/to/project/root",
    "uuid": "6ec0bd7f-11c0-43da-975e-2a8ad9ebae0b"
  }
}
```

Here `root` is the absolute path to your `{projectRoot}` folder, and `uuid` is a random v4 UUID, generated the first time that you start the Rsbuild dev server with the plugin installed (it is henceforth cached in the Rsbuild cache folder).

## Credits

This plugin is inspired by [vite-plugin-devtools-json](https://github.com/ChromeDevTools/vite-plugin-devtools-json). Both the implementation and documentation have been adapted and referenced from the original Vite plugin.

## License

The code is under [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

feat: support custom root path (#13)

README.md, after:

# rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json

Rsbuild plugin for generating the Chrome DevTools project settings file on-the-fly in the dev server.

<p>
  <a href="https://npmjs.com/package/rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json">
   <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json?style=flat-square&colorA=564341&colorB=EDED91" alt="npm version" />
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square&colorA=564341&colorB=EDED91" alt="license" />
</p>

This enables seamless integration with the new Chrome DevTools features:

1. [DevTools Project Settings (devtools.json)](https://goo.gle/devtools-json-design)
2. [Automatic Workspace folders](http://goo.gle/devtools-automatic-workspace-folders)

<img width="800" alt="Screenshot 2025-06-22 at 21 45 26" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/daae3e57-f0fc-43c1-b191-8f916bc542ae" />

## Installation

```bash
npm i -D rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json
```

## Usage

Add it to your Rsbuild config:

```js
import { defineConfig } from "@rsbuild/core";
import { pluginDevtoolsJson } from "rsbuild-plugin-devtool-json";

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    pluginDevtoolsJson(),
    // ...
  ],
});
```

While the plugin can generate a UUID and save it in Rsbuild cache, you can also specify it in the options like in the following:

```js
pluginDevtoolsJson({
  uuid: "6ec0bd7f-11c0-43da-975e-2a8ad9ebae0b",
});
```

You can also specify a custom root path for the DevTools project settings:

```js
pluginDevtoolsJson({
  rootPath: "/path/to/custom/root",
});
```

This is particularly useful in monorepo setups, where you might want to set the root path to the monorepo root directory, especially when used with [rsbuild-plugin-source-build](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rsbuild-plugin-source-build). If not provided, the default root path from Rsbuild context will be used.

The `/.well-known/appspecific/com.chrome.devtools.json` endpoint will serve the project settings as JSON with the following structure:

```json
{
  "workspace": {
    "root": "/path/to/project/root",
    "uuid": "6ec0bd7f-11c0-43da-975e-2a8ad9ebae0b"
  }
}
```

Here `root` is the absolute path to your `{projectRoot}` folder, and `uuid` is a random v4 UUID, generated the first time that you start the Rsbuild dev server with the plugin installed (it is henceforth cached in the Rsbuild cache folder).

## Credits

This plugin is inspired by [vite-plugin-devtools-json](https://github.com/ChromeDevTools/vite-plugin-devtools-json). Both the implementation and documentation have been adapted and referenced from the original Vite plugin.

## License

The code is under [MIT License](LICENSE).
